Sara Fabian Peter Hugo Hallo Test Mersch A MOVE to stop Mr. Gaitskell from nominating any more Labour life Peers is to be made at a meeting of Labour M Ps tomorrow . Mr. Michael Foot has put down a resolution on the subject and he is to be backed by Mr. Will Griffiths , M P for Manchester Exchange . A MOVE to stop Mr. Gaitskell from nominating any more Labour life Peers is to be made at a meeting of Labour 0M Ps tomorrow . Mr. Michael Foot has put down a resolution on the subject and he is to be backed by Mr. Will Griffiths , 0M P for Manchester Exchange . Though they may gather some Left-wing support , a large majority of Labour M Ps are likely to turn down the Foot-Griffiths resolution . Mr. Foot's line will be that as Labour M Ps opposed the Government Bill which brought life peers into existence , they should not now put forward nominees . He believes that the House of Lords should be abolished and that Labour should not take any steps which would appear to " prop up " an out-dated institution . Though they may gather some Left-wing support , a large majority of Labour M Ps are likely to turn down the Foot- Griffiths resolution . Mr. Foot's line will be that as Labour M Ps opposed the Government Bill which brought life peers into existence , they should not now put forward nominees . He believes that the House of Lords should be abolished and that Labour should not take any steps which would appear to " prop up " an out- Though they may gather some Left-wing support , a large majority of Labour 0M Ps are likely to turn down the Foot-Griffiths resolution . Mr. Foot's line will be that as Labour 0M Ps opposed the Govern- ment Bill which brought life peers into existence , they should not now put forward nominees . He believes that the House of Lords should be abolished and that Labour should not take any steps which would appear to " prop up " an out-dated institution . Since 1958 , 13 Labour life Peers and Peeresses have been created . Most Labour sentiment would # still favour the abolition of the House of Lords , but while it remains Labour has to have an adequate number of members . THE two rival African Nationalist Parties of Northern Rhodesia have agreed to get together to face the challenge from Sir Roy Welensky , the Federal Premier . Since 1958 , 13 Labour life Peers and Peeresses have been created . Most Labour sentiment would still favour the abolition of the House of Lords , but while it remains Labour has to have an adequate number of members . THE two rival African Nationalist Parties of Northern Rhodesia have agreed to get together to face the challenge from Sir Roy Welensky , the Federal Premier . Since 1958 , 13 Labour life Peers and # Peeresses have been created . Most Labour sentiment would still favour the abolition of the House of Lords , but while it remains Labour has to have an adequate number of members . THE two rival African Nationalist Parties of Northern Rhodesia have agreed to get together to face the challenge from Sir Roy Welensky , the Federal Premier . Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United National Independence Party ( 280,000 members ) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African National Congress ( 400,000 ) will meet in London today to discuss a common course of action . Sir Roy is violently opposed to Africans getting an elected majority in Northern Rhodesia , but the Colonial Secretary , Mr. Iain Macleod , is insisting on a policy of change . Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United National Independence Party ( 280,000 members ) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African National Congress ( 400,000 ) will meet in London today to discuss a common course of action . Sir Roy is violently opposed to Africans getting an elected majority in Northern Rhodesia , but the Colonial Secretary , Mr. Iain Macleod , is insisting on a policy of change . Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United National Independence Party ( 280,000 members ) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African National Congress ( 400,000 ) will meet in London today to discuss a common course of action . Sir Roy is violently opposed to Africans getting an elected majority in Northern Rhodesia , but the Colonial Secretary , Mr. Iain Macleod , is insisting on a policy of change . Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting the London talks on the Protectorate's future . Said Mr. Nkumbula last night : " We want to discuss what to do if the British Government gives in to Sir Roy and the talks fall through . There are bound to be demonstrations . " Yesterday Sir Roy's chief aide , Mr. Julius Greenfield , telephoned his chief a report on his talks with Mr. Macmillan at Chequers . Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting the London talks on the Protectorate's future . Said Mr. Nkumbula last night : " We want to discuss what to do if the British demonstrations . " Yesterday Sir Roy's chief aide , Mr. Julius Greenfield , telephoned his chief a report on his talks with Mr. Macmillan at Chequers . Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting the London talks on the Protectorate's future . Said Mr. Nkumbula last night : " We want to discuss what to do if the British Government gives in to Sir Roy and the talks fall through . There are bound to be demonstrations . " Yesterday Sir Roy's chief aide , Mr. Julius Greenfield , telephoned his chief a report on his talks with Mr. Macmillan at Chequers . Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at Lancaster House despite the crisis which had blown up . He has now revealed his full plans to the Africans and Liberals attending . These plans do not give the Africans the overall majority they are seeking . African delegates are studying them today . The conference will meet to discuss the function of a proposed House of Chiefs . Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at Lancaster House despite the crisis which had blown up . He has now revealed his full plans to the Africans and Liberals attending . These plans do not give the Africans the overall majority they are seeking . African delegates are studying them today . The conference will meet to discuss the function of a proposed House of Chiefs . Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at Lancaster House despite the crisis which had blown up . He has now revealed his full plans to the Africans and Liberals attending . These plans do not give the Africans the overall majo- rity they are seeking . African delegates are studying them today . The conference will meet to discuss the function of a proposed House of Chiefs . MR. IAIN MACLEOD , the Colonial Secretary , denied in the Commons last night that there have been secret negotiations on Northern Rhodesia's future . The Northern Rhodesia conference in London has been boycotted by the two main settlers' parties - the United Federal Party and the Dominion Party . But representatives of Sir Roy Welensky , Prime Minister of the Central African Federation , went to Chequers at the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan . MR. IAIN MACLEOD , the Colonial Secretary , denied in the Commons last night that there have been secret negotiations on Northern Rhodesia's future . The Northern Rhodesia conference in London has been boycotted by the two main settlers' parties - the United Federal Party and the Dominion Party . But representatives of Sir Roy Welensky , Prime Minister of the Central African Federation , went to Chequers at the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan . Mr. Iain Macleod , the Colonial Secretary , denied in the Commons last night that there have been secret negotiations on the Northern Rhodesia's future . The Northern Rhodesia conference in London has been boycotted by the two main settlers' parties - the United Federal Party and the Dominion Party . But representatives of Sir Roy Welensky , Prime Minister of the Central African Federation , went to Chequers at the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan . Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Federation . Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end meeting . But he told M Ps yesterday : " I have no knowledge of secret negotiations . " He said Britain had an obligation to consult the Federal Government . But the final decision remained with the British Government . Mr. James Callaghan , Labour's Colonial spokesman , said Sir Roy had no right to delay progress in the talks by refusing to sit round the conference table . Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Federation . Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end meeting . But he told M Ps yesterday : " I have no knowledge of secret negotiations . " He said Britain had an obligation to consult the Federal Government . But the final decision remained with the British Government . Mr. James Callaghan , Labour's Colonial spokesman , said Sir Roy had no right to delay progress in the talks by refusing to sit round the conference table . Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Fede- ration . Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end meeting . But he told M Ps yesterday : " I have no knowledge of secret negotiations . " He said Britain had an obligation to consult the Federal Government . Mr. James Callaghan , Labour's Colonial spokesman , said Sir Roy had no right to delay progress in the talks by refusing to sit round the conference table . Mr. Macleod thought the two Rhodesian parties had refused to attend the talks because Sir Roy had found messages sent from the Government were " unsatisfac- tory . " African delegates to the talks yester- day called on Mr. Macmillan to cease his negotiations with Sir Roy's representative , Mr. Julius Greenfield . He was at Che- quers last week-end . They said they regarded with " growing anger " the " gross and unconstitutional " interference by Sir Roy's Federal Government in the talks . Mr. Macleod thought the two Rhodesian parties had refused to attend the talks because Sir Roy had found messages sent from the Government were " unsatisfactory . " African delegates to the talks yesterday called on Mr. Macmillan to cease his negotiations with Sir Roy's representative , Mr. Julius Greenfield . He was at Chequers last week-end . They said they regarded with " growing anger " the gross and unconstitutional " interference by Sir Roy's Federal Government in the talks . Informal talks at Lancaster House will resume today . President Kennedy today defended the appointment of a Negro as his Housing Minister . It has aroused strong opposition from the anti-Negro senators of the Deep South . The negro is Mr. Robert Weaver of New York . One of his tasks will be to see there is no racial discrimination in Government and State housing projects . B.Kaufmann Informal talks at Lancaster House will resume today . PRESIDENT KENNEDY today defended the appointment of a Negro as his Housing Minister . It has aroused strong opposition from the anti-Negro senators of the Deep South . The negro is Mr. Robert # Weaver of New York . One of his tasks will be to see there is no racial discrimination in Government and State housing projects . Informal talks at Lancaster House will resume today . PRESIDENT KENNEDY today defended the appointment of a Negro as his Housing Minister . It has aroused strong opposition from the anti-Negro senators of the Deep South . The negro is Mr. Robert Weaver of New York . One of his tasks will be to see there is no racial discrimination in Government and State housing projects . Senator Allen Ellender of Louisiana sparked off the opposition by telling a television audience it was " current Washington gossip " that Weaver once had Communist affiliations . The Senate Banking Committee , which is headed by another Southern Senator - Willis Robertson , of Virginia - met today in closed session to discuss Weaver's appointment . Senator Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received several complaints about Weaver's loyalty . Senator Allen Ellender , of Louisiana , sparked off the opposition by telling a television audience it was " current Washington gossip " that Weaver once had Communist affiliations . The Senate Banking Committee , which is headed by another Southern Senator - Willis Robertson , of Virginia - met today in closed session to discuss Weaver's appointment . Senator Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received Senator Allen Ellender , of Louisiana , sparked off the opposition by telling a television audience it was " current Washington gossip " that Weaver once had Communist affilia- tions . The Senate Banking Committee , which is headed by another Southern Senator - Willis Robertson , of Virginia - met today in closed session to discuss Weaver's appointment . Senator Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received several complaints about Weaver's loyalty . He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's alleged association with organisations black- listed by the Government . Immediately Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator Robertson saying the Federal Bureau of In- vestigation had reported on Mr. Weaver . He believed he would perform " outstanding service " in his post . Senator Robertson's committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's nomination before it can be con- # sidered by the full Senate . He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's alleged association with organisations black- listed by the Government . Immediately Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator Robertson saying the Federal Bureau of Investigation had reported on Mr. Weaver . He believed he would perform " outstanding service " in his post . Senator Robertson's committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's nomination before it can be considered by the full Senate . He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's alleged association with organisations black-listed by the Government . Immediately Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator Robertson saying the Federal Bureau of Investigation had reported on Mr. Weaver . He believed he would perform " outstanding service " in his post . Senator Robertson's committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's nomination before it can be considered by the full Senate . PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough over West Germany's cash offer to help America's balance of payments position . He said bluntly in Washington yester- day that the offer - 357million - was not good enough . And he indicated that his Government would try to get Germany to pay more . He did not mention personal talks with Dr. Adenauer , the West German Chancellor . PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough over West Germany's cash offer to help America's balance of payments position . He said bluntly in Washington yesterday that the offer - 357million - was not good enough . And he indicated that his Government would try to get Germany to pay more . He did not mention personal talks with Dr. Adenauer , the West German Chancellor . PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough over West Germany's cash offer to help America's balance of payments position He said bluntly in Washington yesterday that the offer - 357million - was not good enough . And he indicated that his Government would try to get Germany to pay more . He did not mention personal talks with Dr. Adenauer , the West German Chancellor . But he said discussions " on a higher level than in the past " might be useful . The President will probably discuss the problem with Dr. Brentano , the West German Foreign Minister , who is due in Washington next week . A big slice of Germany's " aid " # is the early payment of a 210million debt to America . United States officials quickly point out that this is money due to America anyway . But he said discussions " on a higher level than in the past " might be useful . The President will probably discuss the problem with Dr. Brentano , the West German Foreign Minister , who is due in Washington next week . A big slice of Germany's " aid " is the early payment of a 210million debt to America . United States officials quickly point out that this is money due to America anyway . But he said discussions " on a higher level than in the past " might be useful . The President will probably discuss the problem with Dr. Brentano , the West German Foreign Minister , who is due in Washington next week . A big slice of Germany's " aid " is the early payment of a 210million debt to America . United States officials quickly point out that this is money due to America anyway . And they are unimpressed by the Germans' claim that they cannot pay more than 357million without upsetting their own economy . The Americans say Germany is having it too good and is not paying for the past or for the present . The Adenauer Government flatly rejected attempts by the Eisenhower Government to get them to pay a regular sum towards the cost of keeping American troops in Germany . These support costs are a big drain on America's dollar reserves . Dr. Adenauer's answer is the once-and-for-all cash offer of 357million . President Kennedy's rejection of it is a painful blow to the West German Government . It will now have to pay more - and increase taxation to do so - or run the obvious # risks in upsetting the new American administration . These support costs are a big drain on America's dollar reserves . Dr. Adenauer's answer is the once-and-for-all cash offer of 357million . President Kennedy's rejection of it is a painful blow to the West German Government . It will now have to pay more - and increase taxation to do so - or run the obvious risks in upsetting the new American administration . And , since this is election year in West Germany , Dr. Adenauer is in a tough spot . Joyce Egginton cables : President Kennedy at his Washington Press con- ference admitted he did not know whether America was lagging behind Russia in missile power . He said he was waiting for his senior military aides to come up with the answer on February 20 . And , since this is election year in West Germany , Dr. Adenauer is in a tough spot . Joyce Egginton cables : President Kennedy at his Washington Press conference admitted he did not know whether America was lagging behind Russia in missile power . He said he was waiting for his senior military aides to come up with the answer on February 20 . This surprising statement was a sharp about- face from his warnings during the Presidential election campaign . He claimed slackness in the Eisenhower Administration had caused America to lag behind Russia in nuclear development . President Kennedy did his best to avoid giving Pressmen a direct answer . George Brown CHILDREN TWO men who are poles apart in personality last night dominated Mr. Brown , passionate and warm-hearted , led Labour's attack on the higher health charges . Mr. Powell , white-faced and outwardly unemotional , replied with a statistical state- ment - and ended by inciting Labour M Ps to angry uproar . One dealt with the human issue behind the Health Service ; the other tried to show that the balance-sheet must always come first . Mr. Brown , passionate and warm-hearted , led Labour's attack on the higher health charges . Mr. Powell , white-faced and outwardly unemotional , replied with a statistical statement - and ended by inciting Labour M Ps to angry uproar . One dealt with the human issue behind the Health Service ; the other tried to show that the balance-sheet must always come first . The result of the vote was not in doubt . For the Tories were massed in answer to their whips to defeat a censure motion on the Government for " undermining the Health Service " and placing heavy burdens on those least able to bear them . Mr. Brown declared that the policy under censure was monstrous . It had offended many people far beyond the ranks of Labour supporters . The result of the vote was not in doubt . For the Tories were massed in answer to their whips to defeat a censure motion on the Government for " undermining the Health Service " and placing heavy burdens on those least able to bear them . Mr. Brown declared that the policy under censure was monstrous . It had offended many people far beyond the ranks of Labour supporters . The Press , many doctors and public were denouncing the proposals . He quoted from this letter which Mr. Gaitskell had received : " My background is a doctor of 68 , who has practised medicine for 43 years , chiefly as a panel doctor . " I am a lifelong Conservative . I am horrified and amazed by my party's proposal to prostitute the whole principle of the State service and to render that service a hardship to poor people . " After a lifetime of helping others and healing the sick , my considered opinion is that anybody supporting the increased charges is a wicked , old - . " Mr. Brown went on : " We are dealing with a noble edifice which needs an imaginative architect to improve it , but it has got a quantity surveyor . We have descended from the real problems to fiddling about with bills of cost . " After a lifetime of helping others and healing the sick , my considered opinion is that anybody supporting the increased charges is a wicked , old - . " Mr. Brown went on : " We are dealing with a noble edifice which needs an imaginative architect to improve it , but it has got a quantity surveyor . We have descended from the real problems to fiddling about with bills of cost . We believe that a comprehensive medical service , free to the patient at the point of need and with one standard for all sick people , is good and attainable . " We remain for it . But the Tories never were . " Interrupted by angry Tories , Mr. Brown retorted : " The jackals bay when there is nothing better they can do . " " We believe that a comprehensive medical service , free to the patient at the point of need and with one standard for all sick people , is good and attainable . " We remain for it . But the Tories never were . " Interrupted by angry Tories , Mr. Brown retorted : " The jackals bay when there is nothing better they can do . " He told them that their conception of social services was wholly different - fundamentally different from that of Labour . They would provide an ambulance service for the absolutely wretched - but it would not be too comfortable nor too easy to get . Answering jeers that it was Labour which first put a ceiling on health spending and started charges , Mr. Brown reminded the hostile Government benches that was done in 1950 because of the financial strain of the Korean war . He told them that their conception of social services was wholly different - fundamentally different from that of Labour . They would provide an ambulance service for the absolutely wretched - but it would not be too comfortable nor too easy to get . Answering jeers that it was Labour which first put a ceiling on health spending and started charges , Mr. Brown reminded the hostile Government benches that was done in 1950 because of the financial strain of the Korean war . In fact , the Tories made it worse now for the sick and needy than Labour had to make it in 1950 . And as a percentage of social service expenditure , health had fallen from 28.5 to 23.1 per cent. Then Mr. Brown swung his attack directly to the unsmiling Mr. . He demanded that instead of taking it out of the patients Mr. Powell should take ruthless action against the drug making industry , whose profits had risen by up to 400 per cent. in the last eight years . In fact , the Tories made it worse now for the sick and needy than Labour had to make it in 1950 . And as a percentage of social service expenditure , health had fallen from 28.5 to 23.1 per cent. Then Mr. Brown swung his attack directly to the unsmiling Mr. Powell . He demanded that instead of taking it out of the patients Mr. Powell should take ruthless action against the drug making industry , # whose profits had risen by up to 400 per " Mr. Powell finds it easier to take it out of mothers , children and sick people than to take on this vast industry , " Mr. Brown commented icily . " Let us have a full inquiry into the cost of drugs and the pharmaceutical industry . " The health of children today owed much to the welfare food scheme . It was maintained during the war . Now in conditions of Tory affluence it seemed it could not be carried on . " Mr. Powell finds it easier to take it out of mothers , children and sick people than to take on this vast industry , " Mr. Brown commented icily . " Let us have a full inquiry into the cost of drugs and the pharmaceutical industry . " The health of children today owed much to the welfare food scheme . It was maintained during the war . Now in conditions of Tory affluence it seemed it could not be carried on . When Mr. Brown sat down Labour M Ps cheered for a full minute - and even his bitterest opponents on defence joined in . Mr. Powell devoted half his speech to giving details of plans for improving the hospital service , on which indeed the Government is making progress . His basic defence of the Health Service cuts was that " even after the proposed changes the net cost of the service to the Exchequer will have increased over three years by 20 per cent. When Mr. Brown sat down Labour M Ps cheered for a full minute - and even his bitterest opponents on defence joined in . Mr. Powell devoted half his speech to giving details of plans for improving the hospital service , on which indeed the Government is making progress . His basic defence of the Health Service cuts was that " even after the proposed changes the net cost of the service to the Exchequer will have increased over three years by 20 per cent. " That cannot continue without either development being limited or an adjustment being made in financing . " The Government decided to adjust the financing - which Mr. Powell claimed was underpinning - not undermining - the service . Answering the attack on " economic charges " for welfare foods , Mr. Powell said that all these foods would still be free in families receiving regular National Assistance grants . " That cannot continue without either development being limited or an adjustment being made in financing . " The Government decided to adjust the financing - which Mr. Powell claimed was underpinning - not undermining - the service . Answering the attack on " economic charges " for welfare foods , Mr. Powell said that all these foods would still be free in families receiving regular National Assistance grants . " That cannot continue without either development being limited or an adjustment being made in financing . " The Government decided to adjust the financing - which Mr. Powell claimed was underpinning - not undermining - the service . Answering the attack on " economic charges " for welfare , Mr. Powell said that all these foods would still be free in families receiving regular National Assistance grants . MR. Macmillan has picked a strong " brains trust " team to negotiate terms for joining the Common Market . And he has abandoned plans to visit President de Gaulle this month to smooth the way . General de Gaulle's official welcome last week to Britain's moves towards the Six was taken as a friendly gesture in Whitehall , but no more than that . So the idea of personal mission by the Prime Minister to Paris was dropped Instead Mr. Macmillan will rely on a hand-picked team under the leadership of Sir Pierson Dixon , Britain's Ambassador to France , to back Mr. Edward Heath , Lord Privy Seal , who is charged with the conduct of negotiations with the Six . At the same time the Prime Minister has offered Commonwealth Governments every facility possible to safeguard their interests Seven Commonwealth countries have told Mr. Sandys , Commonwealth Relations Secretary , that they wish to be kept in touch in London . Three of them - Canada , Australia , New Zealand - will have strong delegations at an opening meeting in London on Monday . Once the Common Market's Council of Ministers draws up the procedure for negotiations in a fortnight's time , these Commonwealth countries can arrange for observers to advise the British negotiating team . The team is composed of experienced negotiators in several fields . Sir Pier- son Dixon has a wide reputation as a skilful backstage negotiator since his days as Britain's chief UN dele- gate . Second in command is Mr. Eric Roll , 53-year-old Deputy Secre- tary at the Ministry of Agriculture , Food , and Fisheries . The Foreign Office is represented by Sir Roderick Barclay Other leading members are : Sir Henry Lintott from the Commonwealth Relations Office , Sir William Corell-Barnes ( Colonial Office ) , Mr. G. R. Bell ( Treasury ) , and Mr. G. H. Andrew ( Board of Trade ) . They will accompany Mr. Heath next month when he goes to Brussels , headquarters of the Common Market Commission , or wherever the Six decide negotiations should be held . Some of the problems were reviewed yesterday at a meeting in Paris between M. Couve de Murville , French Foreign Minister , and Mr. Heath . MR. Selwyn Lloyd - a man with troubles enough back home - seems fated to fly into trouble abroad . Last year it was the riots in Istanbul , which enlivened the NATO Council meeting . Now we have the strikes and demonstrations in Ghana coinciding with the meeting of the Com- monwealth Economic Consultative Council - the first to be held in Africa . Only a few hours af- ter Mr Lloyd and his 24-strong delegation landed at Accra this morning , hundreds of shop assistants demonstrated outside the British-owned Kingsway Stores , the largest in town . The stores had been hit by the same strike wave that has paralysed the port of Takoradi for the past week . Root of the discontent : The austerity Budget , including a compulsory savings scheme which the Ghana Government introduced in July . Ghana's strong man is not here to face the storm . President Nkrumah , having made his contribution to the neutrals' conference in Belgrade , has resumed his holiday on the Black Sea and no one here professes to know when he will return . But in his absence his chief lieutenants have not let him down . The strong arm of authority has been raised against the strikers and is now beginning to tell . Today's Ghanaian Times ( motto : " The welfare of the people is the supreme law " ) reports : " The Government has been urged to take immediate ac- tion to deal ruthlessly with the strikers . " The urge came from a conference of activists of Nkrumah's Convention Party " after powerful addresses by Comrades Krobo Edusei , Tawia Adamafio , " and others . Strong deeds followed strong words . In Takoradi a " limited state of emergency " was declared , giving the Government adequate power to maintain all essential services and ensure food supplies . Thus it becomes an offence punishable with imprisonment for anyone who " publishes a report likely to cause alarm or prejudicial to public safety . " And up to ten years' imprisonment can be imposed on anyone convicted of sabotage . These stern measures had the desired effect today at Kumasi where the strikers gave in , but in Takoradi , the chief storm centre , they are still holding out despite the presence of 1,400 police and 16 armoured cars . And how did the Government react when the strikers demonstrated in Accra ? At 9.40 Mr. Edusei , Minister of Transport and pro- bably the toughest man in Mr. Nkrumah's team , drove up to the Kingsway Stores and faced the demonstrators , most of them shopgirls in overalls . " If you have not dispersed by ten o'clock , " he told them , ' the police will act . ' At five to ten a posse of police arrived and in less than two minutes the crowd had gone . If the threatened " counter-revolution " was not * to bring the President back from his travels it might have been thought that the muster from the 13 States of the Commonwealth was an occasion worthy of his presence . After all it was Mr. Nkrumah who suggested that this year the Economic Consultative Council should meet in Accra . * enough It has been left , however , to Mr. Goka , Ghana's Finance Minister , to do the honours as host , in which capacity he held a reception tonight in Accra's Ambassador Hotel . POLICE , on direct orders from the Cabinet , are openly intimidating members of Earl Russell's nuclear- disarming Committee of 100 , the Committee claimed yesterday . It said pressure was being put on members and associates all over the country . It alleged : Phones were being tapped and going out of action ; Police were visiting people " on no pretext whatsoever , except to pass the time of day " ; Supporters had been warned - one that his connection with the committee was going too far ; another that anti-apartheid agitation was all right , but support for the committee was not . A third man's house was watched for four days by plain-clothes men . Committee-member Mr. George Clark commented at a Press conference : " The most extraordinary things are happening . " Fifty committee members will appear at Bow-street today , including Lord Russell , Lady Russell , Lord Boyd-Orr , the Rev. Michael Scott , and Mr. Clark . They are required to show why they should not be bound over for disturbing the peace and for inciting a breach of the peace . The summonses say they are " likely to persevere in such unlawful conduct . " Lord Russell , 89 , was putting his affairs in order , and packing a case , at his Chelsea home yesterday . His secretary , American-born Mr. Ralph Schoenman , said : " He is not going to agree to be bound over . That will probably mean jail and , though frail , he is very fit and will take the rigours of prison in his stride . He hopes to be allowed to do some writing . " Back at the Press conference , Mr. Clark said two committee members tried a " plant " call on suspect phone . They discussed a sit-down at Watford at 5.30 p.m. - none was planned but police turned up . Sir Roy Welensky said today that he no longer accepted the good faith of Mr. Kenneth Kaunda . Sir Roy , Federal Rhodesian Prime Minister , said that Mr. Kaunda's United National Independence Party was a monster as vicious as the Zambia National Congress , which was led by Mr. Kaunda until he was outlawed in 1959 . The record of lawlessness among UNIP supporters went back a long way , Sir Roy told the Federal Parliament in Salisbury . He cited cases in which hundreds of UNIP supporters had been arrested or convicted since last year on charges of creating disturbances . During the first three weeks of the present trouble 287 incidents had been reported in Northern Rhodesia . More than 500 people - 167 of them members of the UNIP - were convicted last month in the Northern Province alone . " Against this background must be taken Mr. Kaunda's repeated statements that all he is doing is in the name of non-violence , " said Sir Roy . " I am now compelled to say that I don't accept his good faith . " He said Mr. Kaunda must know that his statements had stimulated violence , but he had done nothing to stop it . " It is true he made a point of again being absent from Northern Rhodesia when his followers have indulged in such violence . " But Sir Roy pointed out that a few months ago Mr. Kaunda said that if UNIP did not get its way what would happen would make the Mau Mau in Kenya " seem like a child's picnic . " JOHN DICKIE writes : Mr. Macmillan gave top priority to the clash over Northern Rhodesia on his return from Scotland yesterday . He summoned Mr. Iain Macleod , Colonial Secretary , and Mr. Duncan Sandys , Commonwealth Relations Secretary for an hour's talks at Admiralty House . A statement is expected today to hold the door open for modifications to the new Constitution provided law and order is maintained in Northern Rhodesia . Its terms have set the Prime Minister an exacting problem . Mr. Sandys has warned of the risk of a strong reaction from Sir Roy Welensky to any suggestion that there may be fresh concessions to the African nationalists . Mr. Macleod has ample evidence from talks with Sir John Moffat , Northern Rhodesian Liberal leader , and Mr. Kaunda , that the bulk of moderates and Africans will reject the Constitution unless it is modified . A ROYAL welcome for the Kabaka of Buganda ( King Freddie ) from Princess Elizabeth Bagaya of Toro , kneeling at the foot of his airliner's steps at London Airport yesterday . Forty other Africans greeted him , kneeling with heads bowed . The princess , aged 24 , is now studying history at Cambri- dge , where she is a friend of Prince William of Gloucester . King Freddie and three other hereditary rulers of native kingdoms in Uganda arrived for talks with Colonial Secretary Mr. Iain Macleod , before the Uganda Constitutional conference opens next Monday . The question : Their status in an independent Uganda . The thorniest problem for next week's conference is to settle the relationships between them and the rest of the country . A Government report has recognised their rights and recommended a form of federal association , but the four kings are not Instead , the kings will remain in London and wait to hear the conference's proposals . Then their views will be transmitted back . MR. BUTLER , the Home Secretary , has decided to meet head-on the biggest challenge to Government authority yet presented by the " Ban-the-Bomb " demonstrators . Police leave has been cancelled and secret plans prepared to deal with the mass sit-down rally planned for Sunday in Parliament-square by the Committee of 100 , the anti-nuclear arms group . It was Mr. Butler who authorised action which ended yesterday in 32 members of the Committee of 100 being imprisoned for inciting a breach of the peace . The committee's president 89-year-old Earl Russell and his 61-year-old wife were each jailed for a week . Playwrights Arnold Wesker ( The Kitchen ) and Robert Bolt ( The Flowering Cherry ) were jailed for a month . The possibility that the Government might invoke the Public Order Act , 1936 , and declare the whole rally illegal - whether the demonstrators sit down or not - was being discussed in Whitehall last night . It was last used a year ago , to deal with the St. Pancras rent riots . Today Mr. Butler will have talks with Police Commissioner Sir Joseph Simpson to draw up final plans for the " Battle of Parliament Square . " Measures agreed so far include : 1 . A mass call-out of police , special constables and reserves , with 750 policemen posted from outlying districts to stations in the area - West End Central , Bow-street , and Cannon-row . Today , for example , the Foreign Minister of Indo- nesia arrived in Belgrade as the guest of the Yugoslav Foreign Minister . In fact such Yugoslav activity has been # particularly intensified in the past year or so and though so far , apart from joint action in the United Nations , these exchanges have not been seen on any wider basis , President Tito is known for some time to have favoured a conference of neutralist leaders . The wish was particularly apparent in comments on the occasion of the conference in Casablanca and , in particular , in Yugoslav approval of the idea of an inter-African consultative assembly which would coordinate activity on the political and economic sphere ; and it is not difficult to see that President Tito would like some such idea extended also to the whole uncommitted world But he now feels , in view of a changed international situation and especially in view of fresh problems facing the new and independent countries of Africa , that the time is ripe to have more frequent consultations between the uncommitted countries and even to work out common stands on various problems facing those nations . Two subjects , the Congo and Algeria , are the main topics of the talks in Belgrade - and on both the two leaders have identical ideas . Two emissaries from the Laotian Government of Prince Boun Oum have arrived in Phnom Penh , Cambodia , to invite Prince Souvanna Phouma , the former Prime Min- ister , to return to Laos . No details of their mission have been disclosed , but it was reported earlier in Laos that Prince Boun Oum was considering asking Prince Souvanna Phouma to join his Government . Prince Souvanna Phouma has not yet replied to the mission , but recent statements made by him in Phnom Penh indicate that he still regards himself as the only legal Prime Minister of Laos . His policy of strict neutrality from 1951 to 1958 kept the kingdom in peace , though at the cost of virtual partition of the country into the pro-communist north and the pro-western centre and south . Prince Souvanna's former Minister of Information , Mr. Quinim Pholsena , who claims to be his representative in Laos , yesterday addressed all officers of the pro-communist forces occupying the province of Xieng Khouang and emphasized that Prince Souphannouvong , leader of the pro-communist Neo Lao Haksat Party , also to the officers in the same terms . This emphasis on the legality of the former Government suggests that all is not well with the political and military leadership of the pro-communists . Most of the province of Xieng Khouang and the tactically useful Plain of Jars , however , appear still to be firmly in their hands . The Government has claimed the recapture of Vang Vieng , the pro- communists' former base 60 miles north of Vientiane , but this claim A correspondent who travelled yesterday to within a few miles of Vang Vieng was told by officers that this village was still held by the pro-communists . With the Prime Minister sunning himself in Jamaica and # his Cabinet out in the grass roots making 160 speeches in 80 constituencies in 10 days , the Liberal Party are holding a national conference here with some 2,000 delegates , the biggest gathering since 1958 when Mr. Lester Pearson was chosen as party leader . In some ways it will be a testing occasion for him , although some think his position unassailable simply because there is no one else in sight to supplant him . So the con- ference will concentrate on laying the foundations on which to win the next election . The rally comes at a time when in spite of carefully worded state- ments by the Prime Minister there is an air of electoral expectancy . Members of the Cabinet are basing their speeches on a new Conservative booklet called The Record Speaks which outlines in some detail the accomplishments of the party since it came to office three and a half years ago . Nevertheless there is little illusion in the Conservative Party that their stock at home has fallen in the face of heavy unemployment and an uncertain economy . Last year saw the defeat of two Conservative provincial governments , Quebec and New Brunswick , and in the four federal by-elections last October the party fared badly . They are now faced with four other by- elections , one at Esquimalt Saanich , British Columbia , one in Leeds , Ontario , and the other two in the Maritimes - Restigouche Madawaska , New Brunswick , and Kings , Prince Edward Island . All four were Conservative strongholds . Last September a public poll showed that for the first time since the Administration came to power in 1957 the Liberals were ahead ( 43 per cent were in favour of " The Grits " if a federal election had been held last autumn , 38 per cent for the Conservatives and 12 per cent for the C.C.F. ) . However , a separate poll revealed that Mr. Diefenbaker was still ahead in terms of popularity as an individual leader ( for Mr. Diefenbaker 36 per cent , for Mr. Pearson 34 per cent ) . How far is Mr. Lester Pearson acceptable to the people of Canada as a Prime Minister ? Many observers at the national rally will be seeking an answer . It is difficult for many to see Mr. Pearson in the role of a popular orator at the hustings , the spellbinder that Mr. Diefen- baker was in the last two campaigns . The impression remains that the Liberal leader is still the diplomatist , more at home in the chancery , or the corridors of the United Nations , not the father figure , so necessary in Canadian leadership , or the practical politician , able to talk about sewage problems in Algoma East . On the other hand , Mr. Pearson excels in meeting people informally , but many still regard him " as some sort of cross between an egghead and a missionary " . His party advisers are now trying to correct that image . The bow tie has gone ; he is having lessons on television techniques and is being coached by speech experts . Everything is being done to promote a new image . Certainly , he is now a much lessly trounced by Mr. Diefen- baker in the House in those early days . It has been a hard road back but now , with plenty of political ammunition given him by the Gov- ernment in recent sessions , he is leading the Opposition with skill and assurance and is a match for the Prime Minister across the floor . Sentence Database Mr. Pearson is now talking about " his new and dynamic liberalism " and this week will # show perhaps how far " Mike will go . The main topic under review is unemployment , but there will be 21 committees examining subjects ranging from foreign investment in Canada to the problems of the Atlantic provinces . However , be this election year or not , Mr. Pearson , with his party increasingly confident of return to power , Sentence Database Mr. Thorneycroft , the Minister of Aviation , who arrives in Bonn tomorrow for talks with the Federal Government on a European space satellite project , will find the Germans interested in the principle of space research , but rather sceptical about British plans for organizing it . Stated more bluntly , they are still unconvinced that this is not primarily an effort on Britain's part to salve Blue Streak , which was abandoned last summer as a military project ; or that the European space satellite is indeed to be purely scientific in character . Mr. Thorneycroft's main purpose will be to remove these doubts , and to persuade the Federal Government that the financial burden involved is really worth while , at a time when any increase in budgetary commitments would almost certainly involve a corresponding rise in taxation - something no one is prepared to contemplate in an election year . But , at the same time , there is reason to believe that the Federal Government is not convinced , on the basis of the information it has so far , that such a project would be justified from a scientific point of view ; and not merely constitute a " prestige " satellite , duplicating to some extent American efforts , as Die Welt suggests today in a highly critical editorial article . On the specific question of the use of Blue Streak , Mr. Thorneycroft's task will be easier . He can point out that this is the only rocket and launcher in Europe to have reached a sufficient stage of development for adaptation as the first stage in putting a heavy satellite into outer space . There has also been some talk of adopting another British rocket , Black Knight , for the second stage , but the French have one of their own called Veronique which they would like to see used . The Foreign Ministry spokesman added today , however , that the Brussels Treaty was irrelevant , because research on the various rocket stages had already been concluded , and only cooperation on the type of capsule was involved . A lesser obstacle to German participation is the absence of any Ministry or Minister directly responsible for it - and therefore of any budget under which funds could be appropriated . This is expected eventually to replace the Fiat G-91 , and the F 104 Starfighter , the backbone of the German Air Force . PRESIDENT KENNEDY renewed his pressure on Mr. Harold Macmillan to join the Common Market during their talks at Admiralty House , Whitehall , yesterday . Much of their three hours , 20 minutes of discussion is believed to have been devoted to this main point of American policy . It arose during talks following President Kennedy's report to the British Prime Minister of the outcome of his recent visit to Paris . There General de Gaulle had made clear that he would accept Britain into the Common Market only if there were no conditions laid down to meet the Commonwealth and other reservations . Mr. Kennedy told Mr. Macmillan that he still wanted him to apply for membership of the Common Market , even if it meant an unconditional surrender . There were also brief discussions on Laos , Berlin and other foreign questions , after Mr. Kennedy had informed Mr. Macmillan of his discussions with Mr. Krushchov . With the exception of 40 minutes when Lord Home , Foreign Secretary , and Mr. McGeorge Bundy , the President's special assistant for security affairs , were brought in , the two men talked alone . An attempt to get more information about the Admiralty House meeting will be made in the House of Commons this afternoon . Labour M.P.s already have many questions to the Prime Minister asking for a statement . President Kennedy flew from London Airport last night to arrive in Washington this morning . He is to make a 30-minute nation-wide broadcast and television report on his talks with Mr. Krushchov this evening . The joint communique on Mr. Kennedy's and Mr. Macmillan's third talks - the first were at Key West , Florida , the second in Washington - said : " Their discussions covered the major problems , both economic and political , and revealed once again the close agreement of the two Governments in pursuing their common purposes . " Occasion was given to review the need for economic co-operation and expansion in the general interests of developed and underdeveloped countries alike . " It said that the President and Premier noted " with satisfaction " the agreement in Vienna on the need for an effective Laos ceasefire , which should lead to progress toward a Laos agreement at the Geneva conference . " Particular attention was also given to the nuclear tests conference and to the question of disarmament . " The situation in regard to Germany was reviewed , and there was full agreement on the necessity of maintaining the rights and obligations of the allied Governments in Berlin . " Apart from their formal Admiralty House talks , followed by lunch given by Lady Dorothy Macmillan with Mrs. Kennedy and other guests present , Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Macmillan met three more times yesterday . In PARIS , Mr. Dean Rusk , U.S. Secretary of State , gave a 90-minute briefing on the Vienna talks to the 15-nation Nato council . Some of his listeners said he was " rather pessimistic " and talked of a Berlin crisis later this year . From Nato headquarters Mr. Rusk went to see President de Gaulle and informed him of the Vienna outcome . Last night Mr. Rusk arrived in London in time to join the Buckingham Palace dinner and to fly home with the President . In DUESSELDORF , Chancellor Adenauer said the Vienna talks " might be the beginning of a slight improvement , " but no big changes should be expected in the political situation . RELAXED , smiling and clearly in the best of spirits , Mr. Krushchov yesterday returned to Moscow after his two days of talks with President Kennedy , writes Dennis Ogden from Moscow . The good beginning made at Vienna must be followed up by new efforts for peace , the Soviet Communist Party newspaper Pravda declared yesterday . Events in Vienna " gave hope to people of goodwill who hate the cold war , and to all who are striving for a stable peace , " " Thinking over the results of the Vienna meeting , peace-loving people will say ' a good beginning . ' " Mr. Krushchov remained at the airport to join President Brezhnev in welcoming Dr. Sukarno , President and Prime Minister of Indonesia , who arrived by Boeing 707 jet on a state visit 40 minutes after Mr. Khrushchov had arrived from Vienna . A cheering , delighted crowd of Indonesian students broke through crash barriers to surround their President on the tarmac for In VIENNA , before flying off to Moscow , Mr. Khrushchov said he hoped his weekend talks with President Kennedy would # help " to establish an enduring peace between nations . " Replying to a farewell speech from Austrian President Schaerf , the Soviet Premier thanked Austria for the hospitality and welcome he had received . " The Soviet Union has always striven and is striving to safeguard an enduring peace for the peoples , to secure an early solution of the MR. GAITSKELL today delivered a full-blooded defence of the Polaris missile base . And by implication he supported the establishment of sites in Britain for the training of German troops . His main theme was that nuclear weapons were necessary to defend Britain , that Britain must depend on Nato and " the West " must have nuclear weapons so long as the Soviet Union has them . Addressing the annual congress of the National Union of General and Municipal Workers , he said he felt sure the Labour movement was coming round in support of his views . Obviously conscious of the fierce and widespread resentment over the U.S. Polaris base in Britain , Mr. Gaitskell said that he even noticed that supporters of unilateral nuclear disarmament were changing their tactics by switching most of their emphasis on to the missile . Mr Gaitskell said that a member of an alliance could not deny facilities to nations to which it was allied . But governments should be free to negotiate and refuse proposals with which they did not agree . The Labour Party opposed Thor missiles , because , he said , they were out of date and vulnerable and would attract enemy action . That argument did not apply to the Polaris submarine . So long as the Soviet Union had nuclear weapons , the West , somewhere , must have them too . It was far better for a weapon used for retaliatory purposes to be under the sea rather than on land . This was why the Labour Party did not think it right to oppose the Polaris depot ship . The party agreed that it was unwise to locate the base in the Holy Loch , only 30 miles from Glasgow , a city with two million people . It should be sited in a more remote area . Mr. Gaitskell added that the Scarborough conference decisions did not , in his view , truly reflect the opinions of the majority of party members and still less the party's supporters in the country . Mr Gaitskell added that agreement with the unilateralists was not possible , though he respected their views . He saw by reports that " those who organise these things " were recommending the supporters of unilateral nuclear disarmament to shift the emphasis of their intervention away from straight opposition to the official document on to opposition to the Polaris base . To Mr. Macmillan , Mr Gaitskell said the Prime Minister should begin to take seriously the danger of the spread of nuclear weapons within the Nato alliance . " Let us say to Macmillan that he should press , I hope with the agreement of Kennedy , in talks with the Soviet Union , for the establishment in central Europe of a zone of controlled disarmament . " He thought , he said , that the Soviet Union would be prepared to reach an agreement on a zone of controlled disarmament in Europe . Mr Gaitskell concluded , declaring that the present was the beginning of a great period of opportunity for the party . It was a great chance that should be grasped . Inter-union jealousies prevent the fulfilment of a common policy for wages and other major questions , Mr. Jack Cooper The General Council of the Trades Union Congress should therefore consider the matter . Consideration should also be given to the regrouping of unions and the modification of their structures to meet the growing concentration of capital . Mr. Cooper argued that a common industrial contribution was urgent - particularly in unions serving workers in the same industry - along Suggesting that a total T.U.C. membership of eight million was a " poor show " compared with some countries , he argued that the position needed examination . BEFORE President Kennedy met Mr. Macmillan yesterday morning he was given the views of a wide section of the British people about Polaris submarine bases in this country . An open letter written by Earl Russell hoping that the Earl Russell , President of the Committee of 100 , told Kennedy that he should take notice of " that very large and growing section which is opposed to the establishment of a Polaris base , whether at Holy Loch or elsewhere on British territory . " He pointed out that already there have been protests but that " very much larger protests are to be expected and are being planned . " There are three kinds of reasons that justify the protests and these should carry weight with the U.S. Government , Earl Russell suggested . " The first of these reasons is the importance of pre- serving the hitherto cordial relations between the U.S. and Great Britain , not only in Government circles , but in public opinion . " Earl Russell says it is inevitable , though profoundly regrettable , that the agitation against the Polaris base has generated some antagonism to the policy of the United States . The second reason is concerned with doubts as to the safety of the people of Great Britain ; " in the time of crisis it would probably be impossible for the British authorities to exercise any degree of control over the action of Polaris submarines . " He argues that there is a distinct possibility that so long as there is a Polaris base in Britain the Soviet Union might retaliate against Britain alone . " Such retaliation might , and probably would , destroy the whole population of Britain in the course of , at the most , an hour " without provoking American retaliation . Earl Russell believes : " It is very questionable whether British membership of Nato and British permission of American bases on our territory add anything to the strength of America , while , on the contrary , they impose upon America an onerous obligation which it may prove impossible to fulfil . " The third reason is that the supreme interest for the whole world - East and West and uncommitted nations - is the prevention of nuclear war . " A rapidly growing body of opinion in this country believes that Britain could be more effective in preventing a nuclear war as a neutral by helping to suggest agreements which could be accepted by both East and West . " THE next White Paper on defence , to be published in March , is likely to contain a five-year plan for the three Services . Its aim will be to produce superbly equipped , all-Regular forces of about 400,000 men . The three Services would be " integrated " to a greater extent than ever before . Short of wearing the same uniform , which is not contemplated , the Navy , Army and Royal Air Force would become , for practical purposes , a single defence force . There would be complete co-operation at all levels in training and operations . This would apply also in the command structure and central administrative organisation . Mr. Watkinson , Minister of Defence , has been working on the plan for some months , with the Prime Minister's approval . He has had numerous meetings with the Service Ministers . He has also had talks with the Earl of Home , Foreign Secretary , and with other Ministers concerned with overseas aspects of defence policy . Details of the scheme are now being worked out by the Chiefs of Staff , a process that may take four or five months . The scheme will be subject to Cabinet approval . Mr. Watkinson remains con- vinced that the policy initiated in 1957 , in Mr. Sandys's time as Minister of Defence , is still correct . This was to return to the tradition of all-Regular voluntary forces , with the last National Serviceman out of uniform by the end of 1962 . The Minister regards the recent trend of recruiting figures as encouraging . He is confident the aim can be achieved . While the possibility of an eventual return to National Service in some form cannot be entirely discounted , he does not agree that the point has been reached where this need even be considered . If National Service is ever resorted to , engagement would probably have to be for three years . It is thought this would be the minimum necessary for the extended training modern arms require and to enable each man to serve at least a year overseas . There is no truth in suggestions that Mr. Watkinson is at odds with the Service chiefs over the decision to dispense with National Service , or over any other aspect of defence policy . Criticisms about Army manpower appear to have come mainly from retired officers who have held high positions but are out of touch with the existing situation . Mr. Watkinson has had the utmost support from the C.I.G.S. , Field-Marshal Sir Francis Festing , who believes completely in the principle of an all-Regular army . Gen. Sir Richard Hull , who is to succeed Sir Francis , is equally convinced Mr. Watkinson is right . Sir Francis is to hand over to Sir Richard as from Nov. 1 . The hand-over , due in September , was delayed because of the Berlin crisis . Mr. Watkinson and his advisers felt the change would be unwise at a moment # when attention had to be concentrated on possible need for important military operations . For this reason Sir Francis stayed on , and # sacrificed his leave . There was a computed 8.4 per cent. swing towards the Nationalist party of Dr. Verwoerd , the Prime Minister . This implies the dis- appearance of the Progressive party from the House . Early results in yesterday's general election showed Nationalists being returned in their strongholds , like Bloem- fontein and the Transvaal , with slightly increased majorities . In the Cape , the veteran United Party politician , Mr. Harry Lawrence , standing as a Progressive , was The defeat of the leader of the Progressive party , Dr. Steytler , in Port Elizabeth South , announced immediately afterwards by the United party candidate , Mr. Plewman , left the Progressives deprived of both their chief figures . Dr. Verwoerd and the Leader of the Opposition , Sir de Villiers Graaff , have been returned unopposed . The contests were for 86 seats as 70 Nationalists and 20 United party candi- dates are unopposed . Long before polling closed at 8 p.m. it was evident that voters were bored by the Government's frequent appeals to the electorate . The election was the fourth in four years . In most constituencies it may go down as the most apathetic in the country's history . THE Prime Minister disclosed in the Commons last night that he had considered early in the Parliamentary recess whether to mobilise reserves necessary to bring the British Army of the Rhine on to a war footing . He decided that it would be a great error to do so and to recall Parliament . But there would be no hesitation in mobilising if a further deterioration in the situation warranted such a step . It would have to be accompanied by other measures of a military , economic and political kind . Mr. Macmillan , who was winding up the foreign affairs debate , said the Government could not be party to accepting as a matter of principle the imposed division of Germany . " We must not be rattled into surrender , but we must not - and I am not - be afraid of negotiation . " Mr. Godber , Minister of State , Foreign Office , said earlier that the Government had asked the Medical Research Council to reassess the fall-out position in view of the Russian tests . The Council's findings would be made public . With a vigour and authority which delighted old Parliamentary friends and foes alike , the Earl of Avon , the former Sir Anthony Eden , in his maiden speech in the House of Lords last night , gave a warning that # appeasement over Berlin could only lead to war . To stand firm , he declared , was not to invite war , but the surest way to avert it . It was the end of a rather curious speech in which Mr. Macmillan wound up the two-day debate on foreign affairs . He began in a low , almost chatty mono- tone , and his voice never rose to any accent of urgency . He passed in rapid review the United Nations Secretariat ; nuclear tests ; the canard about British interference with the United Nations in the Congo ; Kuwait ; and South-East Asia . He spent most of his short half-hour on Berlin . He deplored the possibility of some " new myth " about betrayal of Germany by the Allies . " We do not , " he said , " really know what the Russians want . " But he was certain that they wanted to establish a final and irrevocable division of Germany . Britain could not be a party to an imposed division . But negotiation , as the debate had shown , could be undertaken on a variety of bases . Mr. Macmillan explained that he had deliber- ately refrained during the summer from recalling Parliament or ordering mobilisation by proclamation , such as would be necessary to bring the British Army of the Rhine on to a fully active footing . That would have created a thoroughly unde- sirable atmosphere of panic . He thought that the situation was rather more hopeful . The Russians now realised its seriousness . The French doubts were 